That was closer to an RP 10 than I
should be at. I don't want to be that
close to RP 10. I was thinking I want to
do sets of three. We are happy and we
are on target for next week which is 200
for doubles and then the following week
will be 210 which will be a new local
PB. Today we're bench pressing and it's
the heavy session. It's Monday uh
international chest day. You know, for
me it's not actually how I normally
would do it. Normally I like to start my
week with squats, but because of my
schedule, uh it's just ended up that
skipped session made up for different
days. Monday is bench press day. Uh it's
not just bench press day, it's heavy
bench press day. So this is how I
sequence it. I train four days per week.
Upper, lower, upper, lower. So it
doesn't really matter for me. Uh you
know, I don't feel like I'm well rested
on a Monday compared to a any other day.
Every day is the same. I work the same
amount of times per week pretty much
every day. Uh, and I try and split up my
training so that I have like even amount
of rest in between. Here's one rule that
I have, a fundamental rule that I have.
If you're doing low bar squats like a
powerlifter, low bar squats like a
powerlifter can cause discomfort on
people's biceps, shoulders, elbows. Uh,
everyone has slight different
experiences with that. And I know that a
lot of people do experience some degree
of pain. I call it penis elbow. Not sure
if I'm allowed to say that on YouTube,
but whatever. It's just what it's
called. It's the medical term. That's a
fact. Anyhow, what it is for me, it's
pain in in the brachiialis. So, a lot of
the times when people say my arms are
sore, they they say it's biceps
tendinitis or whatever it might be. And
then I come and I put my thumb right
here, which is the brachiialis. And
usually they jump. I don't even have to
press it very hard. Uh, and I've spoken
about it before. You see me um
struggling with my bench press or this
is what typically happens. uh they do
their low bar squat session and then the
day after or they'll have a day of rest.
So this is how I always do it. Low bar
squat rest day no matter what. That's my
rule that I have. Don't train the day
after low bar squats. You can't do
anything, right? If you do heavy low bar
squats, that is. So if you go heavy low
bar squats, the next day you can't
really deadlift because your squats are
the same muscles. Uh and heavy bench
pressing is going to be negatively
affected because of the pain in your
elbows. So take a day off. For me,
that's a non-negotiable. Um then I have
my light bench press session. Right? So
people talk about how do I manage the
pain. There's lots of different things
you can do um you know with technique of
the lift and all those things but um you
know fatigue management or or
programming correctly is is my number
one rule. So heavy squats day off light
upper body session then you do your
deadlifts and then another day off and
then you do your heavy bench press
session. So that's me now. All right.
Uh, so my heavy squats was last
Wednesday and and actually every program
now. So every week it's my next squat
day, heavy squat day is Wednesday. So
today's Monday. All right. So that means
it's heavy bench press day. So last
week, if you're following my program on
my heavy day is 180 for fours. I did two
sets of that last week. The plan is to
do 9000 for triples today. I'd like to
do two sets. And then next week 200 for
doubles. And then the week after is to
test my single again, which hopefully
it's 210 kg. So, that's what we've got
installed today. Um, 190, two sets,
three reps. Let's get it. Uh, my
warm-ups were as usual, dumbbell presses
up until the weight that I'm going to be
pressing as my first bench press weight,
which is 70 kg. So, I did 15 kg, then 25
kg, then 35 kg. Uh, and in between that,
I did my lat pull downs. Push, pull,
push, pull, push, pull. Now, ready for
set number one. 70 kg.
I'm not sure if it was on Instagram or
on on YouTube that I was asked the
question, "Do you ever train pauses in
your bench press? And my answer is I
feel like I always do. I feel like my
technique is pause, but it's just a
very, very quick pause. And I know a lot
of people might disagree and they'll
say, "No, you know, in a competition,
you've got to pause for longer and all
of these things." Yeah, that's true. Um,
but the way that I pause, I'm going to
show you. I sync it. So, I just do it
quickly. So, I go sync, drive, sync,
drive, sync, drive. I don't just do a
tap and go. I I unload and then press.
Unload and then press. So I I let the
entire weight of the chair of the
barbell, you can't really see it that
much because with the technique of heavy
paws or letting the bar sink in the
chest, you know, you'd think really
heavy weight it should drop really deep.
But for me, that's the goal is to not
let it drop deep by maintaining tension
as hard as you can. So the way that I do
that is I drive my heels down as hard as
I can and I pull my shoulders back and
down as hard as I can. So when I
maintain those two cues, heels down and
shoulders down, that's where I maintain
the strongest and tightest arch combined
with the breath hold and the
belt, right? It's maximal tension and
the bar doesn't sink that
much. It does when it gets heavier and
heavier. So, you know, my best
competition bench press was 240 kg, and
I'm sure it sunk more than what this is
going to be doing today, but it's still
quite minimal. But either way, that's
how I practice. Sink, drive, sink,
drive, and then on competition day, um,
you know, I do the same technique, but
then obviously you have to wait. So, the
rule is on competition, um, the bar must
be motionless before the ref gives the
press command, right? So you you you
know to you unrackck it and then the the
ref will say
start,
press, rack. So those are the three
commands you'll hear from the ref.
You're not allowed to move until you
hear those commands, right? So if you
jump the call, it's a it's a no lift.
Even if you lift the weight and do
whatever, if you if you miss the the
rack call or the press call, it's a no
lift, right? So that's what I do is I
sync it and I wait for them to say
press. Now, here's the trick. The bar
must be motionless. So, however that
might be, a lot of people teach you
should do a light pause. So, where
you're holding the weight, which is a
huge isometric
contraction and wait for the for the
press call. Right now, in my opinion, so
the the pros of this, the advantages of
this is maintaining tension, which I
agree is a huge um important part of the
technique is maintaining tension from
start to finish. The negatives of that,
it's a very long and heavy ismmetric
contraction. So, if you're doing a light
pause, you're having to go one rep max
and stabilize that weight and hold it,
you know, one rep max load. Now, here's
the thing. I find it very difficult to
let to make that barbell motionless when
it's a light pause, when you're
attempting a one rep max. So, for me,
that's why it's an advantage for me to
let it sink in your chest. sink it. And
then I'm not using my muscles to hold it
there. I'm heels down and shoulders back
and just holding it with my body. Sink
it. And then when they say press, then I
turn my pushing muscles back on. So
watch closely if that makes sense to
you. That's the technique that I use. So
I'm going to go 20 kg jumps now. So
first weight was
70 and I'm going to get my cameraman to
unrackck when I get
to 130 kg. So I'll do a red and a blue
by myself. So that's 110 and then big
musty we'll unrackck after that.
[Music]
How do you
feel? You know, my arms are still sore
uh from squatting last Wednesday. Um
which is 5 days
ago. I mean, I don't think it's that
sore that
I won't be able to press uh the target
weight today. I still think I'll be able
to get it, but yeah, you know, back in
the day when I was competing, I used to
have anti-inflammatory medication, you
know, ibuprofen every heavy session. And
that's not good for you. I didn't really
think too much about it. I just used to
think, okay, pain is not good for you
either, so let's just do whatever you
can do to manage the pain and uh push
through. But yeah, it's terrible for
you. Ibuprofen's [__] for you. So now I
don't do um pain medication. I mean, I'm
not uh saying you're a bad person if you
do, and sometimes for some people they
need it. Uh, but for me, as much as I
can, and that's my advice. If you can
manage the pain without medication, I'm
always going to recommend that you don't
take the
medication. Standard pre-workout, long
black with honey. Um, and that's tea
with honey and salty water. Yeah, health
matters. Health matters. You know, I'm
about 101 kg at the moment. And um, my
my peak, I was 118 kg. Very strong, but
very unhealthy. My blood pressure was
high. Now I have normal blood pressure,
you know, 119
over 70 something, I don't know. But it
used to be high blood pressure. Like
that's not healthy to have high blood
pressure. Yeah. I was 118 kg, very
strong, but I used to breathe heavy. Any
old videos of me talking, if you go back
on my Instagram page, any old videos
where you hear me
talking, you know, that's how I used to
breathe. And I wasn't training. So now
if you hear me breathing like that, give
me a break because I'm training and I'm
talking a lot. But um you know back then
even when I wasn't training, that's how
I used to breathe. That's not good. Uh
and I used to snore very heavily when I
was asleep and I needed a CPAT machine.
So my quality of sleep was terrible. Um
and it's not good. So for me at 118 kg,
I'm 179 cm
tall, right? Because I know everyone
asks whenever I say my my body weight,
how tall are you here? 179 cm tall. And
118 kg is too heavy for that height for
me. For me anyway. So now that I'm 100
kg, I can sleep well. My blood pressure
is good. I focus on my health. And those
are the other things that I do to focus
on my health is my nutrition as well. I
eat well. What does well mean? Uh you
know I eat as few processed foods as
possible. meats, vegetables, fruits,
right? Whole
foods as much as possible. Every now and
then I'll have a dessert, I'll have a
chocolate, I'll have a cake. It was
Diana's birthday, you know, Dy J. It was
her birthday on the weekend and we went
and had um lots of cakes and I had
plenty of it. Trust
me. But just not all the time. That's
all. All right, 110. Let's go.
eyes behind the bar. Barb barbell in
line with your
mouth. Okay. When I'm too far down, I
have to reach back too far and I have to
travel too far to get in that position.
Right? The further back you have to
reach, the more your shoulder blades are
going to be taken out of position for
the unrackck. So when you're further
back, all you need to really do is be
far back enough that you don't clip the
rack when you do this set. So you just
want to unrackck it and then just a
couple of inches and then down and up.
Now, if you're a
beginner, if you're a beginner and you
take that advice, typically beginners
have a more erratic bar
path and as you get more and more
advanced, that bar path becomes more and
more refined. So, if you're a beginner
and you're taking that advice, you might
bump the racks. And if that's the case,
okay, slide a little bit further down.
Uh but if your bar path is better and
more aligned uh and more refined, then
you want to not reach back so far when
you unrackck it. That's inefficient. All
right, next up 130.
Yeah. So,
unrackck. I can feel it, Musty. I can
feel it's going to happen when it gets
heavier. You're going to be over the top
more. So, you can't just unrackck it
like that. You got to align like you're
deadlifting. The shoulder goes over the
top of the bar and then you got to bring
your whole body out rather than trying
to do that. So, the first thing that
happens with the unrackck is when you're
lifting it, it goes
back, right? So, you got to be over the
top of it. Thighs on the bar, over the
top of it, unrackck, and
then slight
movement. Nothing happened there. It's
only 100. It's a light weight. Um, so
nothing happened then, but this is like
I I I'm used to the feeling. I'm
familiar with the feeling. And it
doesn't matter on the light weights, but
it does matter on the heavy weight. And
if that happens when it's heavy, it
makes it a lot harder to do the
set. All right, next up, 150.
[Music]
Good one,
Mustel, bro.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Good one. The difference to your life
difference. You felt a difference. Yeah,
bro. You're over the top of it. You're
over the Yeah, I didn't lift. I just
pushed it. Yeah. You just use your legs.
Well, that's not heavy for you because
like the reality is 150 kg of that.
There's no doubt I'm lifting
120. So, all you got to do is or let's
just say let's just say I'm lifting 100.
All you got to do is lift 50 kg with
your legs. It's a rack pull. It's not
even a whole deadlift. It's just a rack
pull like this. And then stay over the
top of it and just balance it here. Just
let your arms hang and finish in line
with where my shoulder is. And then let
go. That's a perfect unreg. How do you
feel? I feel like I still can't tell
because 190 for three is never easy.
It's
heavy. But that felt uh weightless, you
know? It's just so much tension. M you
know like think about a bow and arrow.
You don't just rip it. It's tension.
Tension. Bang. So the same thing.
Tension. Bang. That's how I feel. And
I'm not trying to throw it as fast as I
can. I I say, you know, stand with
intent or push up with intent. So I
don't want to push it so hard that it
throws it out of my hands, right? I
treat it like it's 150 kg. Then the next
one I'll push a little bit harder. Treat
it like it is 170 kg. I don't need to
you know, be super explosive in absence
of tension and technique. That wins.
Tension, technique wins. That's what we
prioritize. So, um, someone mentioned,
you know, your warm-up sets look as slow
as your top sets. I can move the warm-up
sets faster. I can, but that's not the
technique that I'm going to be using for
the top set. Everything contradicts and
everyone's going to pull me up on
something. Well, then why don't you do
the same pause in competition, all that
stuff. Yeah. Okay.
I know everything contradicts
everything, but anyway, that's just the
way that I I like to do it. If it's 150,
so this one will be 170 kg. I will push
it a little bit harder. I just will. I
haven't been timing reps, but from 150
for one rep to 170, realistically, all I
need is 2 to 3 minutes. And then when I
go 170 to my top set, because it's only
one rep, like 170 seems like it's heavy,
but I could probably do 170 for, you
know, eight right now. So, do one rep of
it. It's not hugely fatiguing, but at
the same time, I want a complete
recovery because I want optimal when it
comes to my top set. Um, I don't want to
come in fatigued at all. So, I'm going
to do probably 5 minutes after the 170.
So, this one I'll probably do 3 minutes.
Uh, let's see how long has it been. It's
been about 3 minutes now.
[Music]
Ah,
good.
Okay, now I've just got to get switched
on and I won't talk cuz next one's top
set.
A good one was perfect
unrackck. You shut up.
Just on
time. That was good. Thanks. Good on
rack, bro. That was a good unra.
It was a [__] struggle, bro. Let me
tell you, the first one was a struggle.
Like, I felt it move.
Uh, you say smooth, I say slow. But
Whoa. Yeah.
Dy G. What's going on? How are you, bro?
What's happening? What' you get? Welcome
back. Thank you. What' I get? I just one
set. I got to do one more set. Okay.
What do we got? 190 for triple. Okay.
Yeah. We're going We're going heavy.
In 10. Okay. No, not 10. 10 from the
last set, which is about 3 minutes ago.
Happy birthday. Thank you very much.
Happy birthday, Denny. Thank you very
much. My balloons are Yeah, they are.
Told you it was the line. That was
easier, huh? So good, bro. Wasn't it?
That was so good. Yeah. The second rep
on the first set, it threw me offline a
little bit and then it made the third
rep a little bit
slow. All right, that was good. Two sets
of three at 190. Time for some
accessories now. But that's, you know,
stress off the session. All the
accessories, it's easy stuff. Um, but to
be honest with you, I would have liked
that first set to be easier than what it
was. So when it wasn't easy, I was like,
"Okay, I still got the number, so I
should be happy." And I was even
considering that was closer to an RP 10
than I should be at. I don't want to be
that close to RP 10. I was thinking, I
want to do sets of three on a weight
that I could do four reps on. That's
that's the goal. Uh, and it wasn't like
that at all. I wouldn't have gotten four
reps. So anyway, so I thought, should I
just not do the second set? So, this is
how I autoregulate from week to week.
Yes, there's a program. The program says
two sets of three. But sometimes I'll
look at it and I'll weigh up the risks
and I'll say, is the second set there?
Maybe not. But, you know, those are the
things. That's why I also film myself
and I looked at it and it's like the
set. So, the rep two, the first two reps
on the first set were great and then the
third rep it slowed down like
uncharacteristically slowed down. The
first two reps were really good and it's
because I was a little bit offline.
That's what I felt and it slowed it
down. Uh you can't see it on camera.
Maybe you can. I don't know. But then I
I was just, you know, that's that's what
I think about in between the sets is is
keep it in line. Keep it in line. Um and
I kept it in line. And the third rep was
good. So we are happy and we are on
target for next week, which is 210. No,
sorry, 200 for doubles. And then the
following week will be 210, which will
be a new local PB. I've done 210 before.
I've done 250 before, but at this body
weight, no. at this body weight. I've
done
220 at 100 kg body weight and that's why
I know I can get back there and that's
why that's my
goal. Anyway, um
accessories was let's watch it. It's
just going to tell me what I already
knew. That is that you smoked it. Do you
know what I mean? Watch it. You ready?
I'll tell you what it's going to tell
me. First
rep, smoked it. Second rep, smoked it.
Third
rep. Smoked it. I told you. It was just
telling me what I already knew. All
right. So, what we're going to do is
we're going to double it and 10x that
[__] It's that easy, isn't it? All
right. You
ready? All right. So, warming
up. You know, it's not a warmup. It's a
feel set because I'm already warm. I
just did 190. So, last week I did um 60
kg for 10. Now today I don't think I've
got 65 for 10. My next incremental
increase is up by 5 kilograms each hand
which is you know close to 10%. You
don't get 10% stronger from week to
week. So if I get 65 for eights we're on
track.
I'll tell you the problem is I've got my
mic in my
pocket where I where I place the
dumbbells. So, I've got to figure out
how to do it. What's the best way to get
stronger at the bench?
You know, this is um a discussion that I
had with three of my lifters. Sorry,
myself being one of the lifters and two
of my other ones. One of them was Vasa.
And I asked them all the question, how
long have you guys been benching for? So
for myself, my best was 250 kg. Vasa,
his best is 282 kg. I asked him, "How
long you've been benching for?" And
everyone had the same answer. It was
like over 10 years. Now, it sounds like,
if you've been following me on my page,
I always say the secret to success is
effort plus consistency times 10 years,
right? So, it sounds like, oh yeah, you
just got to do it for 10 years. But it's
not always the case with squat and
deadlift. People can be really, really
strong with squat and deadlifts in their
early years. Some people just are really
hyperresponders for those movements. But
I find with bench press that that is
very rare to be a hyper respponder. Of
course there are hyperresponders, but
I'm talking like, you know, I'm I'm
doing double body weight. That's not
double body weight, but I can do double
body weight bench press. That's a pretty
high amount. But for the first decade of
my training, there's absolutely no way I
was doing that. I was stuck on, you
know, less than 140 kg. So for those who
don't speak kilogram, three plates,
right? So that's kind of the number.
That's 308 pounds. I don't know if they
can make that configuration with a 45
pound. Usually it's like£315 is the
goal, but whatever it was, three plates
aside was is always the goal after
you've done two plates of course. And
yeah, I was stuck under that for many
years. And I have to say learning the
the right technique, the arch that I'm
using now, huge help. Obviously, huge
huge help. But you know, getting to
three plates without the arch took me
many, many years. And that's in my
opinion one of the biggest contributing
factors is upper body muscle development
and strength development takes time. And
I was training for so long. I was always
doing upper body. I was always doing
accessory exercises. You know what I
like to teach is to push and pull on all
angles through full range of motion. So
before I do powerlifting, I did a decade
of Arnold Schwarzenegger style
hypertrophy training. I didn't really
know much about strength work. I just
thought, you know, men trained to to
build muscle and and get a six-pack and
and look good, right? That's that's all
I thought. So that's that's all I was
doing. And then, you know, I was
introduced to strength training later on
in my career. But I believe that
training for hypertrophy the way that I
did, like Arnold Schwarzenegger style,
although didn't get me hugely strong, it
gave me a really great base of muscle
mass as a great foundation. So that when
I did learn to arch, everything came
really quickly. So, you know, to get
from 0 to 140, I shouldn't say zero, but
you know, my first three plate bench
press took me a decade. I don't think I
was a fast responder at all. But then
after that, I got to 160 kg like within
a year or two after that. and then 180
kg, you know, a couple of years later.
And then 200 like, you know, the these
numbers like it was the base that I had
to build of muscle mass, hypertrophy
style, you know, high rep work for
dumbbell work, barbell work, machine
work and and opposing muscles, all the
rows and pull-ups and pull downs,
biceps, triceps, like so much muscle
building, I think, is the best
foundation. You know, I'm 43 years old,
right? So, that's something else that
you got to consider. And I'm not saying
it's an excuse. I'm saying I I did my
first powerlifting competition at 28 or
29 and my bench press was 155 kg at 93
kg body weight right at 28 29. So you
know don't worry about the years before
that and then it took me 8 years to get
20 sorry 10 10 years to get to 250 kg
which was my best in training 240 in
competition and then I got bigger and
yeah 250 kgs in the gym. So anyway, so
what's the formula? You know, put the
time in, build the muscle. Now, after
that, what's the formula? I like to do
upper body two times per week. That's my
recommendation. Two times heavy bench
press sessions per week. Now, a lot of
you guys follow different types of
splits. I don't do body part splits
anymore. I used to do body part splits,
whereas like pec day, shoulder day, lat
day. I don't do that anymore. I do
movement pattern day. So, all of my push
days involve either a bench press or
some type of press variation. If I'm not
training for a competition, I don't
usually start with a bench press. I
could start with an incline press or
dumbbells or overhead press, but that
contributes to my bench press strength.
Two press days a week. With the press
days, I'm also doing an equal amount of
rows, pull-ups or pull downs. So, push
and pull. So, after this, I'm going to
be doing a whole bunch of rows and other
back accessory exercises. I do that on
the same day. Why not? And two times a
week. So, that's one part of the equa.
There's two parts of the equation. Build
a foundation over years. build big pecs,
big delts, triceps, and the opposing
muscles, too. So, do that for years.
Don't worry about having a big bench
press. So, anyway, so this is what I
believe. That's why I said, you know,
the number 43 years old. This is what I
believe I've gotten my longevity out of
building such a base. Like, I I didn't
do, you know, one rep max testing before
I hit 140 kg. I was always rep work. I
didn't, you know, Arnold Schwarzenegger
style. I didn't really care for one
reps. I didn't think he'd train that
way, right? But I built a great
foundation and then I've been able to
progress for many many many years later
and I'm still progressing you know 43
years old and 190 for three at 100 kg
body 101 kg body weight not bad not the
best in the world but also pretty damn
good so what are the factors build a
base lots and lots of muscle the next
thing learn the technique that's the
technique that I'm teaching you could
start like if I had my time again I
would have done it faster and I would
have learned the technique from the
beginning but I also look back and I
think maybe that would have been a thing
cuz I would have been doing too much
specificity in my early days. I think
variation in the early days is really
important for building a pyramid will
only peak as high as the base is wide.
Right? So I think building a base of
huge amount of variation of exercises is
what allowed my pyramid to peak higher
and higher and higher, you know, and
play the long game. Either way, I don't
think it's a disadvantage to know the
right technique. So So build the base,
learn the right technique, train your
pressing two days a week for over a
decade. No, that's not it. Yeah, I mean
that's a large part of it, but that's
not all, you know. Then it's the
programming principles, right? So, if
you follow my other programming
principles, you'll know that I like to
stick to roughly four weekly programs,
you know, and I try not to train as hard
as I can every time I come into the gym,
right? I call a periodizing effort. So,
people debate whether you should train
to fail or not. I don't have that
debate. I say sometimes you should and
sometimes you shouldn't. And if you look
at the way that I train, sometimes I
will. How do you know what failure is or
what your limit is if you've never been
there? The best strategy to test your
limits is to gradually build yourself up
to that hard session. And that I do that
over a four-weekly program. So week one
on most of my programs is easy,
moderate, hard, and then send it on week
four. Right? So you could say RP7, RP8,
RP9, RP 10 on week four. And then I'll
reset that process on the new program.
Start again conservative. RP789 send it.
New program 789 send it. New program 789
send it. And do that for a decade. And
that's how you get a good bench press.
You like that one? You're welcome.
That was very comfortable. Eight reps on
65s. Pretty good.
I was thinking, should I should I go for
10? But then uh I thought I got to do
another set. I'll do another set. Um and
I'm going to do eight again. And then
next week I'll go for 70 kg for sixes.
And if I can keep on going up and up and
up, that will just be
lovely. These are also very fatiguing. I
find dumbbell pressing more fatiguing
than bench
pressing because it's less leverage. You
got to use brute force. You got to push
it with your
muscles. But that felt good. One more
set.
We got 10.
That was good cuz I got 10 on on 60.
No, you're not 65. 65. That's me with a
baby in Yeah, exactly.
Yeah. So, how's that for a strategy for
going to fail, right? So, you don't go
to fail every set, but that's the last
set of my pressing. The reason why you
don't go to fail all the time is to save
yourself so you can have more
consecutive good sets. But I don't have
any more sets, so why not send it or do
an AM wrap the last set of the day. So,
that's what I did. Anyway, let me catch
my breath. All right. Normally, I would
super set uh the push with the pull. So,
I do those dumbbell presses
um wait 3 minutes, do rows, 3 to four
minutes, do rows, and then come back 3
to 4 minutes later, do more presses back
and
forth. But today, I just thought, you
know what? I'm just going to rest. So, I
did, you know, 8 to 10 minute rest
between sets. It's only two sets, so
it's fine.
And yeah, I'm not super set. So, now,
um, I've finished all my pressing for
the day. Now, I'm going to do my rows.
So, that's the first exercise of my
upper back is rows. Um, and I'm going to
do I'll choose a rep I'll choose a
weight where I can do anywhere, you
know, probably around the 15 rep range
is what I'm after for this exercise.
It's one of those exercises because I
have to stabilize my body in this in
this position where if it goes too
heavy, it just doesn't feel that it hits
the right muscles, which is the upper
back. So, the midback and lats. So, this
is a lat exercise as
well. And if I go too heavy, it just
doesn't hit the spot, right? So, a lot
of people um say one of the negatives of
a seated cable row is the r it's a lack
of range of
motion. I don't think so. I think it's a
good range of motion, but you know, it
could be slightly less aer range of
motion than a lat pull down, but you
make up for it by, you know, doing more
repetitions, I guess. Um, but either
way, it's a great exercise. But yeah, I
I say for lat pull downs, you know, 8 to
12 is my sweet spot. You can do more,
but 8 to 12 is my sweet spot. And for
rows, 15s is my sweet spot. Anyway,
let's have a look. This is a mid neutral
grip. Um, I guess you could say that the
closer the closer grip, which you know,
most people do, that's hard to get a
full range of motion. So, that's
probably why I don't think it's a bad
range of motion here, is I use a
slightly wider grip and it allows really
nice position. Let's go. 15.
decent
weight. I feel like 15s is on this
weight was good. I did one feel set, one
warm-up set, and I'll just do two more
sets on this. I'll give myself less
recovery for this one. You know, four to
five minutes, and then I'll do two more
sets.
One more set. One more set and then I'm
done actually. So that's it for my heavy
bench press session. Did you like it?
Did you like the tips that I gave you on
how to get a big bench press? The whole
formula from start to finish and it
doesn't actually ever finish.
But anyway, that's me. Tomorrow is uh
boxing. That's my cardio that I do two
days a week. So, it's four days weights,
two days of boxing. Not because I think
I want to be a fighter or anything like
that. I think it's important to do some
type of cardiovascular activity for your
health. And you got options there. You
could be jogging if you like jogging,
but I don't. So, that's why I say choose
whatever you enjoy because that's what
you're going to stick to and apply most
effort. So, for me in my
cardio, I think you may as well learn a
skill. I'm a girl dad. I got two
daughters. And you know, I want the
boyfriends to fear their their
girlfriend's dad. You know what I mean?
That's not too much to ask. Anyway, not
that I'm going to go beat up their
boyfriends. Imagine that. It's not to go
beat up anyone really, but you know, I
think every man I think it's not a bad
idea to be able to handle yourself, you
know, and and harder to kill, don't you
think? What if something happens? You
never know. Anyway, that's my cardio.
So, that's me tomorrow. And then on
Wednesday, big squat day, that's the
heavy session. That's what we're here
for. Something that I often say is when
my squats are on, it's really hard for
my other lifts to be on as well because
heavy squats, the demand on the
shoulders, it hurts me to do my bench.
but also the demand on your whole body
and spine loading exercise, it
negatively impacts the recovery needed
for a deadlift, right? So, when my
squats are on, usually it's hard for my
other lifts to be on. So, my squats are
at the highest they've been in sometime,
but what is good about that is, you
know, over the last few years, I'll go
through phases where I'm doing well with
my squats, but my bench press and
deadlift sucks. Or I'll be, you know,
benching well and my squat and deadlift
sucks. But it's very rare for me to have
all of my lifts are gradually kind of
coming forward together. And that's
where I feel like I am. I feel like if I
backed off my squats, today's bench
press would have been way easier. And
I'd say I'd be able to bench press 220
kg, you know, in a really short time.
But the fact that I'm bringing my squat
up at the same time, it makes it a
little bit harder to juggle between
those. But either way, that's what it
is. And that's uh you know, the things
that you have to consider as a
powerlifter. Um you know, a strong man,
it's even harder. So, for strong man,
um, you know, World's Strongest Man was
just on. I think it's I don't know if it
was I think it was five events this one.
I always thought it was six. Anyway,
plus all of the, uh, the the qualifying
events as well. It's so much that strong
men have to prepare for um, you know, so
when you consider how strong they are,
they are actually, in my opinion, the
strongest athletes in the world because,
you know, a weightlifter and a
powerlifter gets time to practice the
specific events. Weightlifter has two,
powerlift has three, strongman has, it's
not the same ones every competition, you
know, like for this competition, they
had to get ready for, let's just call
it, eight events. Uh, but then the next
competition, it's going to be eight
different events. You know, maybe one or
two of them will be the same, but it's
always different. So, the specificity
aspect of strongman, it's really hard to
to manage because you're always having
to learn a new skill and, you know, they
look strong with what they're doing. But
if it was the standardized events, if
there was just say five standardized
strongman events, atlas stone, deadlift,
log press, uh a a yoke, and um a
throwing event. Let's just say that's
pretty wellrounded. Let's just say if
that's all there was and it was the same
um you know, standards on every single
competition, those the deadlift would be
a lot bigger than what it is. The stone
records would be bigger than what they
are. Every single one of those events
that I just mentioned would be way
bigger than what they
are. Anyhow, um you know, that's what
you need to factor in when there's more
than just one event that you want to get
good at. The recovery is a huge factor
that you need to consider. And each of
the lifts
uh make it more difficult for the other
lifts to fully recover. Anyway, that's
me for the day. I hope you enjoyed this
session. And I'm going to see you guys
on squat day.